h1. couchdb-xd

Cross-domain AJAX for CouchDB, distributed as a "CouchApp":http://github.com/couchapp/couchapp#readme.

h2. Installation

First, create a new database in CouchDB to store the app. The instructions assume you'll name it "couchdb-xd".

<pre>$ git clone git@github.com:benvinegar/couchdb-xd.git
$ cd couchdb-xd
$ couchapp push . http://user:pass@your-couch-host.com/couchdb-xd
</pre>

Afterwards, include the following script tag in your app/web page:

<pre>
<script src="http://your-couch-host.com/couchdb-xd/_design/couchdb-xd/couchdb.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
</pre>

You'll now have access to the Couch global JavaScript object, which exposes a number of utility classes and methods for manipulating any CouchDB database hosted on that domain. See below for usage.

h2. Usage

Initialize the library.

<pre>
Couch.init(function() {
  // execute on ready
});
</pre>

Get, create, and delete databases.

<pre>
var server = new Couch.Server('http://localhost:5984', 'user', 'pass');

server.get(server, 'dbname', function(resp) { });

server.destroy(server, 'dbname', function(resp) { });

server.create(server, 'dbname', function(resp) { });
</pre>

Get, create, update, delete, and copy documents.

<pre>
var db = new Couch.Database(server, 'dbname');

db.get('some-record', function(resp) { });

db.put('some-record', { hello: 'world' }, function(resp) { });

db.post({ hello: 'world' }, function(resp) { });

db.destroy('some-record', { rev: 'abcdef123456789' }, function(resp) { });

db.copy('some-record', 'new-record', { rev: 'abcdef123456789' }, function(resp) { });

</pre>

h2. Unit Tests

After installing, you can run the provided unit tests at: 

"http://your-couch-host.com/couchdb-xd/_design/couchdb-xd/test/index.html":http://your-couch-host.com/couchdb-xd/_design/couchdb-xd/test/index.html

h2. Caveats

Only works with browsers that support window.postMessage (IE8+, Firefox 3.5+, Safari 4+, Chrome).

h2. Todo

 * Bulk Document API
 ** "http://wiki.apache.org/couchdb/HTTP_Bulk_Document_API":http://wiki.apache.org/couchdb/HTTP_Bulk_Document_API
 * Database API
 ** _changes, _all_dbs
 ** "http://wiki.apache.org/couchdb/HTTP_database_API":http://wiki.apache.org/couchdb/HTTP_database_API
 * Support non-postMessage browsers
